Threre are three types of lung cancer.

1. Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
This is the most common type of lung cancer. About 85% of lung cancers are non-small cell lung cancers. Squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, and large cell carcinoma are all subtypes of non-small cell lung cancer.

2. Small Cell Lung Cancer
Small cell lung cancer is also called oat cell cancer. About 10%-15% of lung cancers are small cell lung cancers. This type of lung cancer tends to spread quickly.

3. Lung Carcinoid Tumor
Fewer than 5% of lung cancers are lung carcinoid tumors. They are also sometimes called lung neuroendocrine tumors. Most of these tumors grow slowly and rarely spread.

Causes:
The main reasons of lung cancer is Cigarette smoking.

Common symptoms of lung cancer include

1. A cough that doesn't go away and gets worse over time
2. Constant chest pain
3. Coughing up blood
4. Shortness of breath, wheezing, or hoarseness
5. Repeated problems with pneumonia or bronchitis
6. Swelling of the neck and face
7. Loss of appetite or weight loss
8. Fatigue

Detection Technic:

1. Imaging tests. An X-ray image of your lungs may reveal an abnormal mass or nodule. 

2. A CT scan can reveal small lesions in your lungs that might not be detected on an X-ray.

3. Sputum cytology. If you have a cough and are producing sputum, 
looking at the sputum under the microscope can sometimes reveal the presence of lung cancer cells.

4. Tissue sample (biopsy). A sample of abnormal cells may be removed in a procedure called a biopsy.

Stages of lung cancer

Stage I. Cancer is limited to the lung and hasn't spread to the lymph nodes. 
The tumor is generally smaller than 2 inches (5 centimeters) across.

Stage II. The tumor at this stage may have grown larger than 2 inches, or it may be a smaller tumor that involves nearby structures, 
such as the chest wall, the diaphragm or the lining around the lungs (pleura). Cancer may also have spread to the nearby lymph nodes.

Stage III. The tumor at this stage may have grown very large and invaded other organs near the lungs. 
Or this stage may indicate a smaller tumor accompanied by cancer cells in lymph nodes farther away from the lungs.

Stage IV. Cancer has spread beyond the affected lung to the other lung or to distant areas of the body.
